Okay, in this video, we are gonna take
a look at the Swagger Editor. And I'm not
gonna be able to get into every
single feature of this. I just wanna
show you this, more for your awareness.
And I'm here on the Swagger
site, and what I'm gonna do is they do
have a client but I'm gonna use the
online editor. So let's go into that and
take a look at this. And what we've been
doing, so far, is we've been doing
development based. We've been developing
our API first, and then, developing
documentation. But Swagger allows you to
develop the documentation, the API
and then develop your back-end code to
support the API. So, one way you develop
your code first and then documentation,
or you can develop the documentation
first and then your code. So, I'm not
gonna get into a debate, as to which is
better.
I'm sure the Swagger guys think that
developing the documentation first is
better, and I can see merit in that
because it does give you a contract to
work towards. But in real life, may or may
not work out. So, what I wanna do is
come through here and show you some of
the features of this online tool, and you
can see here, that we have tags pet,
everything about your pets. And this is
actually live. So, if I come in here and
change that, we can see over here that it
had changed on the screen. And now, I also
wanna point out that we do have the
ability to try it out. So I can do a try
it out, and say pet pending. And we'll
bring it back in JSON. Execute. And here,
I'm getting a fail to fetch. So, it might
be a glitch in there. But let's come in
here, and it does give this curl command.
So let's go ahead and take a look at
that curl command.
Come back over here
and we can see that this curl command, it's
a little easier to see on the Swagger
Documentation. So they are running an
instance of pet store on petstore.swagger.io
So that is a live API
that we can be working against, and
that's actually pretty cool stuff there,
that we have that API to work against.
And I wanna point out that this
documentation is being dynamically
created. And what we can also do, if you
remember over here,
going back to the API Docs. Remember the
Swagger UI that we've been working with
is actually pointing to this Json body,
which is the Swagger Documentation. Now,
if I come here and say ctrl A and I'm
gonna copy that to the clipboard.
Let's come over here
and I'm gonna paste that. And we do we
wanna convert your JSON into YAML.
I'm gonna say yes.
And now, look at that. We can see that it
took my Swagger documentation from the
website here running on local host of
the project that we've been working with,
and now, it converted that into that. And
now, I can make little tweaks to it.
And so, we could tweak the documentation,
if we needed. And again, let's go ahead
and show you how this works. Let's go Try
it out.
And I'm not seeing the... so we are getting
a failed to fetch here on the
documentation. But, it does give me a
valid curl command. It's smart enough to
know that I'm running against
localhost. And we're here to clear this.
And we can see that it is giving
valid curl command and this is data
coming right off my localhost, the stuff
that we've been working with.
Swagger Editor is a very very powerful
tool. It's very mature. Something that you
can definitely utilize to generate. You
can come in start learning the Swagger
Documentation and actually use it to
generate code. And in the next video, we
are gonna take a look at the code
that it generates for us. But, this is
just more of an introduction to the
Swagger UI. Again, I am using the web
version. There are downloadable clients
that you can use and run it natively. So,
it's a lot of really cool stuff. I'm
really impressed with Swagger and how it
is giving us some type of standard
definition of what RESTful APIs are.